wow this guy has gained international
fame for its uh
not so attractive looks but it was an
unfair competition
i'm talking about the one and only blob
fish
this thing was once on display in an
aquarium looking like a gloopy slimy
well
blob but underwater in its natural
habitat
it looks like any other normal fish it's
a deep sea dweller living off the coast
of australia
the blobfish thrives at around 3000 feet
below the surface
at those depths the pressure is 120
times higher than what you and i are
used to
in fact only robust submarines can go
that deep
this droopy creature doesn't have a
skeleton or much muscle
instead it has jelly-like flesh to
combat the extreme
underwater pressure you also won't find
a great white shark in any aquarium you
go to
in the past many have tried adding great
whites along
other sharks in their tanks but it never
worked out
they'd stop eating and even struggle to
swim doesn't make for great business
either it's too
costly to keep the great white because a
large enough tank will need
millions of gallons of water these fish
don't like staying in one area for long
they prefer open waters where they can
swim vast distances
we haven't seen one in captivity since
the 1970s
the saula better known as the asian
unicorn was just discovered in 1992
it lives on the slopes of the anamite
mountains between laos and vietnam
it looks like an antelope but genetic
tests show it's more closely related to
cows the saola is one of the rarest
large
mammals in the world surveys estimate
there are just
70 to 750 left in the wild yeah it's a
pretty big range
experts can't get a more specific number
because they're impossible to spot
only two have been caught and studied
on to the unicorns of the sea narwhals
there are more than eighty thousand of
these creatures but they're still near
threatened
they've got long narrow tusks protruding
from their heads
this unicorn-like tusk is actually a
tooth that can grow up to 10
feet they belong to the whale family but
unlike their relatives
they don't migrate narwhals spend their
lives in the arctic waters of greenland
canada
norway and russia they live up to 50
years in the wild
but they can't make it in captivity so
if you want to see one in real life
the zoo isn't the place to look
unlike other creatures on the list
swallows are very common
you might recognize this pretty bird
from those gorgeous blue feathers
running from their head to tail even
though they're one of the most
widespread species
they're not suited for zoos they eat on
the fly
literally and catch their food in the
air which is why they only feed on
flying insects
they need to live in large aviary
structures with plenty of flying room
and most zoos can't provide that
you'll find plenty of lowland gorillas
in captivity
the same can't be said about mountain
gorillas these apes have longer hair
and they're more grayish than brown
there are only about 1 000 of them in
the wild
making them an endangered species
mountain gorillas
usually spend a quarter of their day
eating back in the 60s and 70s
there were many attempts to catch them
and start a captive population
but it was impossible they might not do
well in enclosed environments because of
their particular dietary needs
without those the gorilla's health
declined noticeably
another issue could have been stress now
there aren't any mountain gorillas in
any facility
diving back into the water we have the
giant squid
a behemoth that inspired lore of the
kraken
this creature remains a mystery to
scientists their inhospitable deep-sea
environment has made them hard to study
the only research scientists could do
was from rare specimens that washed up
on the shore
in 2004 researchers in japan snapped the
first pick of a live giant squid
two years later they managed to bring
one up to the surface
because they live so deep in the sea
their eyes
are the size of a beach ball they can
see things in the darkest places of the
ocean
where other creatures would struggle to
see anything at all
to this day the giant squid has never
been caught or kept in captivity to be
studied in full
next we've got the rarest large mammal
on the planet
the javan rhino less than 70 are left
and they all live in a national park on
the island of java indonesia
of the five total rhino species they're
the most endangered one
scientists aren't sure how long they
live but guess somewhere between 30 to
40 years
the area where they live is vulnerable
to tsunamis and they're also close to
many active volcanoes
if any of them erupts the job and rhino
could go extinct
now a creature you've probably never
heard of is the injury
the madagascar native is a unique
primate that relies on trees to move
around and
feed they live 15 to 18 years in the
wild
but in captivity some barely made it one
year
probably because they don't do so well
with stress and disturbance
experts believe their diet is so
specific that it can't be replicated in
captivity
they also notice the animals don't
reproduce when they're taken out of the
wild
the pink fairy armadillo doesn't have
wings or do
magic but it's still an adorable little
animal with a pinkish shell
that acts like a living radiator it's
the smallest of all armadillos
and it spends its entire life using its
bulky front claws
to burrow through the earth mostly at
night it can hardly be spotted let alone
caught
and that's why scientists haven't been
able to study this fella very much
and you'll only find it in central
argentina
even though rare bugs are popular in
zoos one you'll never see
is the giraffe weevil why the name it
has an extraordinarily long
neck that helps the bug build its nest
no ladder needed
they spend most of their time feeding on
the leaves of a single tree species
dubbed in their honor
the giraffe beetle tree there's another
insect species called the giraffe weevil
in new zealand
but funny enough it's an entirely
different species
straight from the deepest part of the
earth comes the mariana snail fish
it thrives at 26 000 feet below
it's almost as high as planes fly only
the opposite direction of course
the pressure at such depths is so
intense it feels like an elephant is
standing on your toe
ow thus it just couldn't make it in the
shallower waters of an aquarium
another deep sea lover is the dumbo
octopus
it lives 13 000 feet below the surface
at those depths
it rarely feels threatened so this
little cutie doesn't have an ink sack
like
other octopuses which use theirs for
protection to get away from enemies
it belongs to the family of umbrella
octopuses
you can see its arms are connected by a
web of skin
giving it an umbrella-like appearance
when swimming around
not many people have seen a dumbo
octopus but it isn't an endangered
species
nobody can go that deep to mess with
this guy
lastly one of the most critical factors
for deciding if an animal can survive in
an aquarium is
their size when it comes to blue whales
unless an aquarium is the size of the
ocean that's a no-go
and an animal that big needs tons of
food
no aquarium could ever afford it it's an
endangered species with less than 25 000
left
these marine mammals migrate over
thousands of miles
to cover such vast distances a blue
whale can actually sleep while it's
swimming
but it's never entirely unconscious it
lightly naps while cruising through the
water
that's a big boy